---
layout: post
title: "Git Notes"
date: 2016-09-18
category: "misc" 
tags: [git]
---

### Git push need username, password, how to avoid?

Solution 1:

A common mistake is cloning using the default (HTTPS) instead of SSH. You can correct this by going to your repository, 
clicking the ssh button left to the URL field and updating the URL of your origin remote like this:

git remote set-url origin git@github.com:username/repo.git


Solution 2: 

git push https://username:password@myrepository.biz/file.git --all

in this case https://username:password@myrepository.biz/file.git replace the origin in git push origin --all

To see more options for git push, try git help push

**Attention:**
In our company, use ssh URL instead of HTTPS URL does't work because the port of ssh have been disable by company's firewall.

### To see your repo URL, run:

git remote show origin


Git add/create patch in the BSP:
git status
git add Makefile
git commit -s -m "extraversion"// Commit the change and add signed-off-by line to the commit.

### Create last 2 commits' patch in the /tmp directory:

git format-patch -o /tmp HEAD^^

### Import your patches to the linux kernel:

git am /tmp/0001-extraversion.patch

git am /tmp/0002-extraversion.txt.patch

### apply the patch, but not commit it to the git repo.

git apply *.patch

Then, can put the patches to a template and reference them in a .scc file. for example:

$ cp /tmp/*extraversion*.patch \
$HOME/custom_layer/feature/templates/my_changes/linux/
Create an extraversion.scc file, and add below lines:
patch 0001-extraversion.patch
patch 0002-extraversion.txt.patch
$HOME/custom_layer/feature/templates/my_changes/linux/extraversion.scc

### Show changes to the code from branch intel_xeon_c600_pch to cpvc-standard

git whatchanged intel_xeon_c600_pch-standard..cpvc-standard

### View a summary of changes:

git log --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit kernel_type..bsp -kernel_type

git log --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit standard..cpvc-standard

### View a Combined diff of Source Code Changes

git diff kernel_type..bsp-kernel_type

git diff standard..common_pc-standard

### View the Change History of a Particular File

git whatchanged path_to_file

git whatchanged Makefile

### Use the following command to see the changes for a particular branch:

git show tag or branch

git reset --hard HEAD^

If you skip all the generated binaries and the dlls and heavy things in the repository then it shouldn't have a problem with optimization.

git config --global gc.auto 0

[junhuawa@Tesla]$git am ~/tmp/0001-add-test-msg.patch

    Applying: add test msg
    Auto packing the repository for optimum performance. You may also
    run "git gc" manually. See "git help gc" for more information.
    Counting objects: 7, done.
    Delta compression using up to 24 threads.
    Compressing objects: 100% (7/7), done.
    Writing objects: 100% (7/7), done.
    Total 7 (delta 1), reused 0 (delta 0)

    Checking connectivity: 3797750, done.

### Git cmd:
[junhuawa@Tesla]$git log  17ef73f8 > /tmp/log_git.txt

[junhuawa@Tesla]$git format-patch  -s a5c606bc8..17ef73f8

0001-random-make-add_interrupt_randomness-do-something-sa.patch

### How to export a Git project

git archive master | gzip > latest.tgz

git config --global alias.lgb "log --graph --pretty=format:'%Cred%h%Creset -%C(yellow)%d%Creset %s %Cgreen(%cr) %C(bold blue)<%an>%Creset%n' --abbrev-commit --date=relative --branches"

git lgb

Show kernel branch tree:

git log --graph --simplify-by-decoration --pretty=format:'%d' --all

### Extract the code from git repo to a file in tar format:

git archive HEAD --format=tar  -o ~/linux-2.6.34.15.tar

Pushes your changes upstream
Git will reject pushes if newer changes exist on remote.
Good practice: Pull then Push

### Push code to the server:

 git push origin HEAD:refs/for/master

### My Logs

git remote set-url origin git@github.com:junhuawa/junhuawa.github.io.git

[junhuawa@Tesla junhuawa.github.io]$ git remote set-url origin https://github.com/junhuawa/

junhuawa.github.io.git

[junhuawa@Tesla junhuawa.github.io]$ git remote show origin

    * remote origin
      Fetch URL: https://github.com/junhuawa/junhuawa.github.io.git
      Push  URL: https://github.com/junhuawa/junhuawa.github.io.git
      HEAD branch: master
      Remote branch:
        master tracked
      Local branch configured for 'git pull':
        master merges with remote master
      Local ref configured for 'git push':
        master pushes to master (fast-forwardable)
        
[junhuawa@Tesla junhuawa.github.io]$ 

### Show git tag description
    git show ${TAG}
    

1. Git fall back to a old commit position

    git reset --hard (commit id or HEAD^^...)

2. Show the history commit which have been masked

    git reflog

3. Git reset to a masked commit

    git reset --hard (masked commit id)

### git reflog
一个简单的git log命令可以为你展示最后一次commit，以及它的父亲，还有它父亲的父亲等等。而git reflog则列出了head曾经指向过的一系列commit。要明白它们只存在于你本机中；而不是你的版本仓库的一部分，也不包含在push和merge操作中。

### Remove a local branch

    git branch -d Test

#### git pull and FETCH_HEAD
In its default mode, git pull is shorthand for git fetch followed by git merge
FETCH_HEAD.

FETCH_HEAD is a short-lived ref, to keep track of what has just been fetched from the remote repository. git pull first invokes git fetch, in normal cases fetching a branch from the remote; FETCH_HEAD points to the tip of this branch (it stores the SHA1 of the commit, just as branches do). git pull then invokes git merge, merging FETCH_HEAD into the current branch.

The result is exactly what you'd expect: the commit at the tip of the appropriate remote branch is merged into the commit at the tip of your current branch.

This is a bit like doing git fetch without arguments (or git remote update), updating all your remote branches, then running git merge origin/<branch>, but using FETCH_HEAD internally instead to refer to whatever single ref was fetched, instead of needing to name things.

#### git merge

需要merge时，首先从server上pull下来最新的代码，这时候会将我的改动放到一个cache里，等我修改好conflicts之后，再用git rebase --continue, 这样就会吧我的change放到最新的代码之上。

git push origin HEAD:refs/for/master 将代码push到gerrit去review

HEAD:refs/heads/master 是直接将代码push到仓库里面，这个是不允许的。

change id 是专门为gerrit review所引进的，每一次commit都会调用hook。

#### How do I use 'git reset --hard HEAD' to revert to a previous commit?

```sh

[junhuawa@hzling42 src-lrcddg]$ git reset HEAD~1
Unstaged changes after reset:
M   src-lrcddg/src/axc/axc_attr.c
M   src-lrcddg/src/axc/axc_core.c
M   src-lrcddg/src/axc/axc_core.h
[junhuawa@hzling42 src-lrcddg]$ git status .
On branch master
Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)

    modified:   src/axc/axc_attr.c
    modified:   src/axc/axc_core.c
    modified:   src/axc/axc_core.h

no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
[junhuawa@hzling42 src-lrcddg]$ git reset --hard 2300948e42b35cc045ef6deb970cfc65b092811
HEAD is now at 2300948 %FIN %NF=LTE3735-F  LBR supports 12 4.9Gbps/9.8Gbps CPRI links and CPRI achieves state F
[junhuawa@hzling42 src-lrcddg]$ git status .
On branch master
nothing to commit, working directory clean
[junhuawa@hzling42 src-lrcddg]$ git reset HEAD^
Unstaged changes after reset:
M   src-lrcddg/src/axc/axc_attr.c
M   src-lrcddg/src/axc/axc_core.c
M   src-lrcddg/src/axc/axc_core.h
[junhuawa@hzling42 src-lrcddg]$ git status .
On branch master
Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)

    modified:   src/axc/axc_attr.c
    modified:   src/axc/axc_core.c
    modified:   src/axc/axc_core.h

no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
```

First, it's always worth noting that git reset --hard is a potentially dangerous command, since it throws away all your uncommitted changes. For safety, you should always check that the output of git status is clean (that is, empty) before using it.

Initially you say the following:

    So I know that Git tracks changes I make to my application, and it holds on to them until I commit the changes, but here's where I'm hung up:

In case this reveals a mistaken assumption, I should say that this isn't correct. Git only records the state of the files when you stage them (with git add) or when you create a commit. Once you've created a commit which has your project files in a particular state, they're very safe, but until then Git's not really "tracking changes" to your files. (for example, even if you do git add to stage a new version of the file, that overwrites the previously staged version of that file in the staging area.)

In your question you then go on to ask the following:

    When I want to revert to a previous commit I use: git reset --hard HEAD And git returns: HEAD is now at 820f417 micro

    How do I then revert the files on my hard drive back to that previous commit?

If you do git reset --hard <SOME-COMMIT> then Git will:

    Make your current branch (typically master) back to point at <SOME-COMMIT>.
    Then make the files in your working tree and the index ("staging area") the same as the versions committed in <SOME-COMMIT>.

HEAD points to your current branch (or current commit), so all that git reset --hard HEAD will do is to throw away any uncommitted changes you have.

So, suppose the good commit that you want to go back to is f414f31. (You can find that via git log or any history browser.) You then have a few different options depending on exactly what you want to do:

    Change your current branch to point to the older commit instead. You could do that with git reset --hard f414f31. However, this is rewriting the history of your branch, so you should avoid it if you've shared this branch with anyone. Also, the commits you did after f414f31 will no longer be in the history of your master branch.

    Create a new commit that represents exactly the same state of the project as f414f31, but just adds that on to the history, so you don't lose any history. You can do that using the steps suggested in this answer - something like:

    git reset --hard f414f31
    git reset --soft HEAD@{1}
    git commit -m "Reverting to the state of the project at f414f31"


https://gist.github.com/katta/1028871


#### Converts Git diff to SVN patch format

```sh
    git diff --no-prefix --ignore-space-at-eol | sed -e "s/^diff --git [^[:space:]]*/Index:/" -e "s/^index.*/===================================================================/" > changes.patch
```

#### Git - get all commits and blobs they created

To get commits (all and output one line per commit):

    git rev-list --all --pretty=oneline

Then split commits by space with limit of 2 and get every commit id and message

To get blobs created by commit (recurse to subdirs, show merge commits, detect renames and copies, don't show commit id on first line):

git diff-tree -r -c -M -C --no-commit-id <commit-sha>

A bit of parsing of every line and excluding some of them — and we get list of new blobs and they path for commit

Last is to get blob sizes:

git cat-file --batch-check < <list-of-blob-shas>

And another time a bit of parsing

#### How can I undo `git reset --hard HEAD~1`?
当你使用这个命令后，当前最新的commit为原来的HEAD前面的那个commit,
而且本地任何没有被git跟踪的文件都会被清除. 如果想恢复到原来的commit
id应该怎么做呢？ 

用`git log` 看不到原来的commit的id. 用`git reflog`可以看到原来的commit, 

git reflog: check the history of the HEAD in the branch.

This will restore to the previous HEAD.

    git reset HEAD@{1}

