#### gzip: MYFILE.zip: unknown suffix — ignored

当我用gunzip解压一个zip包, 比如MYFILE.zip时报错,
原因是gzip/gunzip期望文件后缀是.gz的.

gzip is file compressor/decompressor for files that generally have the file
extension .gz and cannot extract files from a file like colorbox.zip. On linux
you would use zip and unzip to add and extract files in a zip file. 

#### zip all files in directory?

You can just use *; there is no need for *.*. File extensions are not special
on Unix. * matches zero or more characters—including a dot. So it matches
foo.png, because that's zero or more characters (seven, to be exact).

Note that * by default doesn't match files beginning with a dot (neither does
*.*). This is often what you want. If not, in bash, if you shopt -s dotglob it
will (but will still exclude . and ..). Other shells have different ways (or
none at all) of including dotfiles.

Alternatively, zip also has a -r (recursive) option to do entire directory
trees at once (and not have to worry about the dotfile problem):

zip -r myfiles.zip mydir

where mydir is the directory containing your files. Note that the produced zip
will contain the directory structure as well as the files. As peterph points
out in his comment, this is usually seen as a good thing: extracting the zip
will neatly store all the extracted files in one subdirectory.

You can also tell zip to not store the paths with the -j/--junk-paths option.

The zip command comes with documentation telling you about all of its (many)
options; type man zip to see that documentation. This isn't unique to zip; you
can get documentation for most commands this way.

